when Intel launched their lunar Lake
laptops one of the big things that stood
out was just how powerful and energy
efficient the gpus were and I think for
a lot of people myself included we
wanted to see some kind of gaming
handheld that would take advantage of
that chip because it just seem so
promising this is the first one on the
market the MSI claw 8 AI it's a terribly
long name now before I begin I need to
preface this video with just a thought
last year I did a video on the first MSI
claw the first first generation one and
I did a video on the early Hardware I
wasn't allowed to Benchmark it or test
it and I felt like I got burned because
when the device actually launched the
performance was poor the battery life
wasn't great and I felt like MSI had
overhyped what the product would be able
to do mostly because of the chip so this
time around I've had this device for
over a month and I purposefully waited
until the drivers came out so I could
test it properly and talk about the
performance and this time I think there
is something worthy of video okay this
device outperforms the RG Alx and other
Z1 extreme devices on most gaming titles
I'd say that the Intel 258 V is just a
better chip overall for handheld gaming
now it's still very early on in the
launch of this product so some titles
don't work perfectly but you can already
tell that it's a solid performer and it
can only get better over time now in
terms of image upscaling Tech so Intel
has XCS AMD has their FSR Tech I much
prefer Intel's iteration of this kind of
Technology especially on handhelds like
your face is right up to the screen
you're holding these things close and
when you have any kind of artifacting
from amd's FSR which is just more more
noticeable on 's version of it it just
takes away from the experience so uh I
like that the Intel version is so good
but there's not a ton of games that
support it still so it's only like 200
plus titles on Steam I just think that
grows over time one thing to keep in
mind though that AMD chip that Z1
extreme that's in here is a pretty old
chip it came out like the spring of 2023
so it's almost 2 years old so I'm not
surprised that a new Intel chip can
outperform it if anything I'm surprised
it took that long but this is The
Benchmark that Z1 extreme is the chip
that's in all of the kind of top
performing Windows handhelds right now
there are other AMD chips like the HX
370 but those aren't particularly energy
efficient and I don't think many
companies will be using it for handhelds
now the battery life on the MSI claw 8
AI plus is quite good it's running an
80w hour battery so it's fairly big and
because you can easily set the DDP and
settings it's very consistent and
predictable in terms of battery life
also fan noise is very quiet it is
running a very energy efficient chip so
it's relatively easy to cool it silently
uh but also the idle power draw is way
better than the first generation of the
MSI claw and I think having a lower
power consumption at that idle state is
a really important characteristic of
just having a good portable gaming
experience uh now this device comes in
two screen sizes there's a 7-in model
which looks very similar in terms of
like the hardware Aesthetics to last
model and then this new 8 in model that
does have a bigger screen and also the
larger 80w hour battery now when you
hold this thing the first time I pulled
out of the box it is definitely bigger
and heavier than the 7in claw but I
don't find it uncomfortable to hold or
tiring to hold it even after an extended
period of time this is actually very
ergonomic device to hold uh I also
prefer this device in terms of the Eros
over the RG Alx this always felt a
little bit flat and just not as
comfortable to me but still the king of
ergonomics is the steam deck this I
don't know why I just love the way this
thing holds like the kind of curved grip
on the back just gives it really nice
ergonomics in comparison but this I like
it it feels nice there's a Micro SD as
well as two thund rope four ports up top
if you want to connect to an external
GPU but there's three kind of Hardware
features I want to talk about the first
is the display so this is an 8 in
display 120 HZ variable refresh rate it
is an IPS panel it's not OLED but I do
like the resolution it's 1200p and at
first when I saw that it was a higher
resolution screen I was like huh I I
typically prefer lower resolution
screens on handhelds but because it can
handle it with the more powerful GPU I'm
happy with that resolution the second
thing I want to talk about though are
the controls so the sticks and the d-pad
and both of these components I did not
like out of the box I thought that the
sticks were too loose and just not
springy enough I just felt like there
just wasn't enough resistance as you
moved it around and I also didn't like
the d-pad in terms of how it felt now
over time over this month because I've
been using this so much I've grown to
really like the sticks I think you just
adapt to the kind of resistance that
you're given and your aim just adapts
and your movement just gets used to it
I'm good with the sticks but the d-pad
over the month I've grown to dislike it
more and more and I think anyone who
plays game like let's say you play
Street Fighter and you're doing quarter
circles or half circles your thumb just
gets shredded on this d-pad and I think
it's because the ridges on this thing
are so high I don't know why they made
it like this like maybe the MSI
Engineers just don't play a lot of
fighting games but this does does not
feel good to me and I'm actually
surprised it hurts as much as it does
even after using it for a month just
never got used to it uh the third thing
I want to talk about the speakers these
sound awesome I think these are the best
sounding speakers on any gaming handheld
right now uh they're just they sound
great good volume as well now the price
so this model the 8 in model starts at
$8.99 a $9 gaming handheld it is
equipped with 32 gigs of RAM and a terab
of storage but that is just a crazy
expensive price point so I think the
reason why it feels so expensive is that
at this point in time a lot of the
competitors have dropped down in pricing
like they're a little bit older so you
can get like 600 or even $550 devices
that are so good so you have a $900
device that is better performing and
it's got a ton of ram but it's still
$900 so here's my take I think the
device is great and I think that it will
likely be one of the better performing
Windows handhelds we have avail
available on the market but I would wait
on this thing for that price to come
down I feel like there's no way that
they'll be able to readily sell this
thing at that price point and because
MSI is MSI they'll drop the price down
and at that point I think this becomes a
more palatable purchase uh but there you
have it that's the new MSI claw 8 AI
Plus